#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage {html}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme helvet
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single 
\papersize a4paper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language french
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle plain

\layout Title

Hu-Go! other platforms specific notes
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
begin{htmlonly}
\end_inset 


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
htmladdnormallink {Zeograd}{mailto:zeograd@zeograd.com}
\end_inset 

 
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
end{htmlonly}
\end_inset 


\layout Author


\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
begin{latexonly}
\end_inset 

Zeograd (zeograd@zeograd.com)
\begin_inset ERT
status Collapsed

\layout Standard

\backslash 
end{latexonly}
\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This document briefly describes specifics of Hu-Go! on platforms others
 than Windows and linux.
\layout Section

Supported platforms
\layout Standard

Hu-Go! has became quite portable and runs on manu platform even if not all
 are supported officially (due to lack of time, knowledge and hardware).
\layout Standard

Hu-Go! runs well on Solaris, FreeBsd.
 The same notes than Linux applies to them, excepted that cdrom isn't supported.
\layout Standard

Hu-Go! is ported for Xbox by Xport, and documentation for this port are
 included in its distribution.
\layout Standard

Hu-Go! is ported for BeOs, thanks to Caz.
 I don't have much details about it.
\layout Standard

Hu-Go! is also ported to Sheldows.
\layout Standard

Parts of Hu-Go! are found in GPEngine, the GP32 pc engine emulator.
\layout Standard

There are certainly other ports and or derived work.
 I'd be glad to hear about them and include them here.
\layout Standard

A dreamcast port is also in progress but I don't have much details.
\the_end
