#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme helvet
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single 
\papersize a4paper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language french
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle plain

\layout Title

Hu-Go! Quickstart
\layout Author


\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl[Zeograd]{mail:zeograd@zeograd.com}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

This document briefly describes how to play pc engine games with Hu-Go!.
 More detailled explanations can be found in the other thematic document
 in the same directory as this one.
\layout Standard

Hu-Go! can be launched without argument to start with a gtk interface in
 which you can change options and start roms and cds.
 You can also start it giving as argument the name of the .pce file to run.
\layout Section

Keyboard mapping
\layout Subsection

Games keys
\layout Standard

By default, the keyboard is mapped like this :
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

up up arrow
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

down down arrow
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

left left arrow
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

right right arrow
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

II\SpecialChar ~
button Alt key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

I\SpecialChar ~
button Space key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

select Tab key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

run Return key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

auto\SpecialChar ~
II X key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

auto\SpecialChar ~
I C key
\layout Subsection

Special keys
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Toggle\SpecialChar ~
fullscreen F9 key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Quit F12 key / ESC key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Save\SpecialChar ~
current\SpecialChar ~
game\SpecialChar ~
state F6 key
\layout List
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000

Load\SpecialChar ~
current\SpecialChar ~
game\SpecialChar ~
state F7 key
\layout Section

Supported formats
\layout Standard

You can use the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

load rom
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 button to load rom as .pce files, or cd as .iso files.
 The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

load cd
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 button is used to play real pc engine cds.
\layout Section

Options
\layout Standard

Options control how the game are rendered.
 They are stored in an .ini file which is generated from the gtk interface
 (prefered) or edited with a text editor.
 Most options can be overriden with command line options.
\layout Subsection

Graphics
\layout Itemize

Start games in fullsceen mode : When game are started, they are in fullscreen
 mode.
\layout Itemize

Maintain pce aspect ratio in fullscreen mode : When in fullscreen mode,
 keep the same ratio for screen dimention than the one of the original game,
 else use the maximum available space even if it means that proportions
 are messed.
\layout Itemize

Emulate television size 
\emph on 
[Not yet implemented]
\emph default 
 : Drop the rendering of lines outside the 224 lines of the middle of the
 screen.
 When using games on tv, those are generally outside the visible area.
\layout Itemize

Window zoom factor : Zoom factor when in windowed mode.
\layout Itemize

Prefered full screen size : Size of the fullscreen mode.
 You can switch to it with F9 key.
\layout Itemize

Hardware acceleration when available : Try to use the super fast hardware
 rendering mode.
 It is not available on older machines, and will simply use the classical
 mode in this case.
\layout Itemize

Hardware graphic format : Change this value to something else than Autodetect
 if colors are screwed when using the hardware acceleration.
\layout Subsection

Paths
\layout Itemize

CD system filename : Path to the cd system rom to be used for launching
 cd or isos.
\layout Itemize

Default rom directory : Directory in which to begin browsing roms.
\layout Subsection

CD emulation
\layout Itemize

Soft bios emulation mode : Do not try to emulate cd bios calls at high level,
 hence slowing the cd emulation but raising the compatibility.
\layout Itemize

CD path 
\emph on 
[Unused for windows]
\emph default 
 : Path to the cd rom device, e.g.
 /dev/hdd.
\layout Itemize

Enable arcade card mode 
\emph on 
[Still in progress]
\emph default 
 : Enable arcade card emulation.
\layout Subsection

Sound
\layout Itemize

Use stereo sound : Enable stereo sound rendering.
\layout Itemize

Output frequency : Frequency of sound rendering.
 If your card doesn't support the given frequency, Hu-Go! will pick the
 nearest supported one.
\layout Itemize

Buffer size : Size of the buffer sound.
 You can double or half it if the sound is choppy.
 256, 512 or 1024 should fit most machines.
 It must be a power of 2.
\layout Subsection

Netplay
\layout Itemize

Netplay mode : 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Local mode
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 disables netplay support while 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

LAN netplay
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 enables it using the LAN protocol and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

INTERNET netplay
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 enabled it using the Internet protocol.
\layout Itemize

Server hostname 
\emph on 
[Unused when in local mode]
\emph default 
 : Hostname of the machine running the Hu-Go! netplay server.
 It doesn't support ip for now.
\layout Itemize

Server port 
\emph on 
[Unused when in local mode]
\emph default 
 : Port on which the Hu-Go netplay server is listening.
\layout Itemize

Slot X 
\emph on 
[Unused when in local mode]
\emph default 
 : Number of the local input to export for netplay.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

None
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 should be used for the last entries.
 Typical configuration is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Slot 1 : Player 1
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and remainings to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

None
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 


\the_end
